# Basics of OS

## Computer systems
- A Computer system consits of one or more CPUs and a number to device controllers connected through a common bus to provide access to shared memory.
- CPU and device controllers can execute concurrently, competing on memory cycles.
- Memory controller ensures the synchronized access of the shared memory.
- Each device controllers maintains *Local Buffer Storage* and *Set of special purpose registers*.


### Some important terms
1. **Interrupt**: [More_Ref](https://linux-kernel-labs.github.io/refs/heads/master/lectures/interrupts.html#interrupt-handling-in-linux)
- An interrupt is an event that alters the normal execution flow of a program and can be generated by hardware devices or even by the CPU itself. 
- When an interrupt occurs the current flow of execution is suspended and *interrupt handler runs Interrupt Service Routine*. After the interrupt handler runs the previous execution flow is resumed.
- Hardware can trigger an interrupt by sending the signal to the CPU, usually by the way of *System bus*.
- Software interrupts are triggered using *System calls*.

- Interrupts can be grouped into two categories based on the source of the interrupt. They can also be grouped into two other categories based on the ability to postpone or temporarily disable the interrupt:
	- **synchronous**: generated by executing an instruction
	- **asynchronous**: generated by an external event
	- **maskable**: can be ignored & signaled via INT pin	
	- **non-maskable**:cannot be ignored & signaled via NMI pin
- It is possible that one interrupt is associated with multiple devices and in this case it is said that the *interrupt is shared*. Usually, when using shared interrupts it is the responsibility of the device driver to determine if the interrupt is targeted to its device or not.

2. **Process**: Every program that is Loaded into the memory for the execution, is called a process.